doc/source/index.rst, before:

..
   Copyright 2017 AT&T Intellectual Property.
   All Rights Reserved.

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
   not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
   a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
   WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
   License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

====================================
Welcome to Deckhand's documentation!
====================================

Deckhand is a document-based configuration storage service built with
auditability and validation in mind. It serves as the back-end storage service
for Airship.

Deckhand's primary responsibilities include validating and storing YAML
documents that are layered together to produce finalized documents, containing
site configuration data, including sensitive data. Secrets can be stored using
specialized secret storage management services like Barbican and later
substituted into finalized or "rendered" documents.

The service understands a variety of document formats, the combination of which
describe the manner in which Deckhand renders finalized documents for
consumption by other Airship services.

User's Guide
============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   getting-started
   overview
   revision-history
   documents
   document-types
   encryption
   validation
   rendering
   substitution
   layering
   replacement
   api_ref
   api_client
   exceptions

Developer's Guide
=================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   HACKING
   REVIEWING
   developer-overview
   policy-enforcement
   testing

Release Notes
=============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   releasenotes/index.rst

Glossary
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   glossary

Commit message:

docs: Reorganize documentation structure
This patch set reorganizes Deckhand's documentation structure
for better organization into 3 distinct categories:

* developer's guide
* operator's guide
* user's guide

This means that the RTD navigation menu on the left-hand side
will have fewer links (see list above) making navigation much
easier. This is similar to how Armada organizes its documentation
too.

This patch set also updates README section with a better
overview and trims some fat from it (remove testing
documentation as it doesn't really belong there -- there
is a dedicated page for that already).

Finally, this patch set changes the exceptions page to
render as a basic list of autoexception classes because
the current tabularized view is not rendering correctly
on RTD [0].

[0] https://airship-deckhand.readthedocs.io/en/latest/exceptions.html
Change-Id: I162383bf8e3bbd5004603c979ac7b0d760a210c4

doc/source/index.rst, after:

..
   Copyright 2017 AT&T Intellectual Property.
   All Rights Reserved.

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
   not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
   a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
   WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
   License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

====================================
Welcome to Deckhand's documentation!
====================================

Deckhand is a document-based configuration storage service built with
auditability and validation in mind. It serves as the back-end storage service
for Airship.

Deckhand's primary responsibilities include validating and storing YAML
documents that are layered together to produce finalized documents, containing
site configuration data, including sensitive data. Secrets can be stored using
specialized secret storage management services like Barbican and later
substituted into finalized or "rendered" documents.

The service understands a variety of document types, the combination of which
describe the manner in which Deckhand renders finalized documents for
consumption by other Airship services.

Overview
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   overview

User's Guide
============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   users/index

Developer's Guide
=================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   developers/index

Operator's Guide
================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   operators/index

Release Notes
=============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   releasenotes/index

Glossary
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   glossary
