doc/source/users/encryption.rst, before:

..
  Copyright 2018 AT&T Intellectual Property.
  All Rights Reserved.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
  not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
  a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
  WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
  License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.

.. _encryption:

Data Encryption
===============

Deckhand supports encrypting the ``data`` section of documents at-rest to
secure sensitive data. This encryption behavior is triggered by setting
``metadata.storagePolicy: encrypted``. It is solely the document author's
responsibility to decide the appropriate storagePolicy for the data contained
in the document.

.. note::

  Note that encryption of document data incurs **runtime overhead** as the
  price of encryption is performance. As a general rule, the more documents
  with ``storagePolicy: encrypted``, the longer it will take to render the
  documents, particularly because `Barbican`_ has a built-in `restriction`_
  around retrieving only one encrypted payload a time. This means that
  if 50 documents have ``storagePolicy: encrypted`` within a revision, then
  Deckhand must perform 50 API calls to Barbican when rendering the documents
  for that revision.

Encrypted documents, like cleartext documents, are stored in Deckhand's
database, except the ``data`` section of each encrypted document is replaced
with a reference to Barbican.

Supported Data Types
--------------------

`Barbican`_ supports encrypting `any`_ data type via its "opaque" secret type.
Thus, Deckhand supports encryption of any data type by utilizing this
secret type.

However, Deckhand will attempt to use Barbican's `other`_ secret types where
possible. For example, Deckhand will use "public" for document types with kind
``PublicKey``.

.. _Barbican: https://docs.openstack.org/barbican/latest/api/
.. _restriction: https://docs.openstack.org/barbican/latest/api/reference/secrets.html#get-v1-secrets
.. _any: https://github.com/openstack/barbican/blob/7991f8b4850d76d97c3482428638f788f5798a56/barbican/plugin/interface/secret_store.py#L272
.. _other: https://docs.openstack.org/barbican/latest/api/reference/secret_types.html

Commit message:

docs: Add documentation on data redaction
This patch set adds documentation related to data redaction in
order to capture the purpose behind it and how it adds an
added layer of security to Deckhand.

Change-Id: Icb28970684a9026fda200273a14d9ba421f627d7

doc/source/users/encryption.rst, after:

..
  Copyright 2018 AT&T Intellectual Property.
  All Rights Reserved.

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
  not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
  a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
  WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
  License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.

.. _encryption:

Data Encryption
===============

Deckhand supports encrypting the ``data`` section of documents at-rest to
secure sensitive data. This encryption behavior is triggered by setting
``metadata.storagePolicy: encrypted``. It is solely the document author's
responsibility to decide the appropriate storagePolicy for the data contained
in the document.

.. note::

  Note that encryption of document data incurs **runtime overhead** as the
  price of encryption is performance. As a general rule, the more documents
  with ``storagePolicy: encrypted``, the longer it will take to render the
  documents, particularly because `Barbican`_ has a built-in `restriction`_
  around retrieving only one encrypted payload a time. This means that
  if 50 documents have ``storagePolicy: encrypted`` within a revision, then
  Deckhand must perform 50 API calls to Barbican when rendering the documents
  for that revision.

Encrypted documents, like cleartext documents, are stored in Deckhand's
database, except the ``data`` section of each encrypted document is replaced
with a reference to Barbican.

Supported Data Types
--------------------

`Barbican`_ supports encrypting `any`_ data type via its "opaque" secret type.
Thus, Deckhand supports encryption of any data type by utilizing this
secret type.

However, Deckhand will attempt to use Barbican's `other`_ secret types where
possible. For example, Deckhand will use "public" for document types with kind
``PublicKey``.

.. _data-redaction:

Data Redaction
==============

Deckhand supports redacting sensitive document data, including:

* ``data`` section:

  * to avoid exposing the Barbican secret reference, in the case of the
    "GET documents" endpoint
  * to avoid exposing actual secret payloads, in the case of the
    "GET rendered-documents" endpoint

* ``substitutions[n].src|dest`` sections:

  * to avoid reverse-engineering where sensitive data is substituted from or
    into (in case the sensitive data is derived via :ref:`substitution`)

.. note::

  Document sections related to :ref:`layering` do not require redaction because
  secret documents are :ref:`control-documents`, which cannot be layered
  together.

See the :ref:`api-ref` for more information on how to redact sensitive data.

.. _Barbican: https://docs.openstack.org/barbican/latest/api/
.. _restriction: https://docs.openstack.org/barbican/latest/api/reference/secrets.html#get-v1-secrets
.. _any: https://github.com/openstack/barbican/blob/7991f8b4850d76d97c3482428638f788f5798a56/barbican/plugin/interface/secret_store.py#L272
.. _other: https://docs.openstack.org/barbican/latest/api/reference/secret_types.html
